Source: `https://gpfault.net/posts/asm-tut-0.txt.html`

# Registers

The *general purpose* registers available are:

```

rax
rbx
rcx
rdx

rsp
rsi
rdi
rbp

r8
r9
r10
r11
r12
r13
r14
r15

```

The lower byte (L.B.) or lower word (L.W.) or lower double word (L.D.W.) of the
registers can be accessed directly.

To access them, you have to use their special names:

```

Registers   L.B.    L.W.    L.D.W.

rax         al      ax      eax
rbx         bl      bx      ebx
rcx         cl      cx      ecx
rdx         dl      dx      edx

rsp         spl     sp      esp
rsi         sil     si      esi
rdi         dil     di      edi
rbp         bpl     bp      ebp

r8          r8b     r8w     r8d
r9          r9b     r9w     r9d
r10         r10b    r10w    r10d
r11         r11b    r11w    r11d
r12         r12b    r12w    r12d
r13         r13b    r13w    r13d
r14         r14b    r14w    r14d
r15         r15b    r15w    r15d
```

Additionally, the higher 8-bits of the `rax`, `rbx`, `rcx`, `rdx` registers can
be accessed using `ah`, `bh`, `ch`, `dh`.

Even though I said those were *general-purpose* registers, some instructions
can only be used with certain registers, and some registers have special
meaning for certain instructions. For example: `rsp` holds the stack pointer
(which is used by instructions like `push`, `pop`, `call` and `ret`), and the
`rsi` and `rdi` registers serve as source and destination index for "string
manipulation" instructions. Another example where certain registers get
*special treatment* are the multiplication instructions, which require one of
the multiplier values to be in the `rax` register, and write the result into the
pair of registers `rax` and `rdx`.

The `rip` register holds the address of the next instruction to execute. It is
modified by control flow instructions like `call` or `jmp`. `rflags` holds a bunch of
binary flags indicating various aspects of the program's state, such as whether
the result of the last arithmetic operation was less, equal or greater than
zero. The behavior of many instructions depends on those flags, and many
instructions update certain flags as part of their execution. The flags
register can also be read and written "wholesale" using special instructions.

There are a lot more registers on x86-64. Most of them are used for SIMD or
floating-point instructions, and those won't be covered here. 
